The primary difference between an UI and UX can be understood from a restaurant analogy. The UI refers to the look and feel of the 
interiors and exterior of the restaurnant, the design, menu cards, the dress code of the employees, how the flood served looks etc.
The UX refers to the sum of each of the experience that each of the customers goes through starting from the table allocation, choice
of food offered, customer service that is offered, the food quality etc.

Basically, UI refers to the look, feel, responsiveness and interactability.
UX refers to the overall experience felt by the customers from entering the restaurant till leaving the place.

In this article, certain tips for maintaining UX will be looked into for mobile and web users.

1. Keep the navigation tabs to a minimum.
2. Make sure there are placeholders and tips for filling out forms.
3. Ensure auto save of filled forms inorder to ensure that users dont have to enter data twice.
4. Endless newsfeed keeps the used engaged on the app or website.
5. Decide between browser, native app and hybrid app while choosing between the medium to communicate to users. Each has its own purpose.
6. The web version of any business should not be directly converted to mobile version. Mobile users are easily disengage and task 
oriented unlike web users. Example is the starbucks app.
7. Make the titles and usage of every activity clear and make sure they precisely meet the user segment's needs.
8. Perform user testing to ensure that defined navigation/action is followed by the users.
9. Take credit card information only for paid subscriptions. 
10. Leave adequate spacing and put the ontent so that the user captures and retents the necessary information
11. Highlight the most common action for any activity.
12. Show errors that are user friendly rather than the technical errors.



The key principles while going for product design are
Discoverability: The user should be able to understand what ahd how the application can be used. Navigation should be crystal clear. 
